Stand-Up Comedy FAQ

Steve Silberberg

http://www.faqs.org/faqs/comedy-faq/standup/

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) for the alt.comedy.standup Newsgroup
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

  1. Becoming a stand-up comedian.
  2. Commonly asked questions
  3. Comedy writing tips
  4. Protecting your work
  5. The Screen Actors Guild
  6. List of comedy clubs by city.
  7. Agents and promotional agencies.
  8. Books about how to become a stand-up.
  9. Comedy Periodicals
 10. Comedy Software
 11. Miscellaneous

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Tips for getting started in stand-up comedy

  1. Keep a notebook & write down everything that strikes you as funny.
     (Only write down the stuff YOU think of!!!!)
  2. Start by going to open mikes. Prepare a few minutes of material &
     give it your best shot.
  3. Audio tape or video tape yourself when possible.
  4. Don't call your act unfunny; they'll believe you.
  5. Don't say "This is serious" or "This is drama"; they'll believe you.
  6. Don't tell the audience they're tired or they don't have to stick
     around. They'll believe you.
  7. Don't tell the audience they're supposed to laugh. They WON'T believe
     you..
  8. Don't use "savers" (jokes about bombing) until at least 3 gags went
     badly.
  9. Don't do the "endless close" if your final bit ate it. It's not only
     excruciating for the audience, it unfairly eats into the next comic's
     time.
 10. Don't dump on an audience member who didn't ask for it.
 11. Don't berate the small audiences for being small. They showed up.
     They're the good guys.
 12. Don't judge, criticize, or rip other people. Comedy is more political
     than you may imagine. Alternatively, politics is more comical than you
     may imagine.
 13. DON'T STEAL MATERIAL! Is your ego so fragile that you can't risk your
     own material not being funny?
 14. Don't get discouraged if you don't do well. (Not easy!).
 15. Bring everybody you know out to see you perform so that the next day,
     they can lie to you about how well you did.
 16. Learn how to take a joke. Most comedians can't.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Commonly asked questions:

Q. Is alt.comedy.standup for telling jokes?

A. Definitely not. Don't post them. Not only are jokes formulaic and
offensive to stand-ups, if you post them, you will be derided mercilessly
by the regulars. If you have an auto-erotic compulsion to tell jokes, or
want to steal jokes you can tell at the office to make people think you're
not the pathetic idiot you are, go to rec.humor and talk to those morons.

Q. Then what is it for?

A. It is mostly a place where stand-up comedians, agents, club owners,
bookers, comedy writers, comedy fans, and an occasional doorman, sound guy
or entertainment attorney hang out & discuss performing, the state of
comedy, and other issues pertaining to stand-up comedy.  The comedians in
this group range from first time open miker to nationally famous
headliner.  Alt.comedy.standup also serves as an informational venue for
people who want to find out about about shows, touring, comedy CD's and the
like. Please refrain from posting binaries.

Q. And what else, Dave?

A. To me, this newsgroup is like sitting at a big table in a restaurant
after a show. Some comics are ripping each other, some just stay for a
minute then come back later, some are trying to be funny, and some just
want to eat & want everyone else to shut up.

Q. But isn't stand-up comedy dead?

A. Yes.

Q. What happened to all the comedy clubs from the 80s, BaldGuy?

A. At one point there were too many rooms and not enough headliners. So in
order to put more money in their pockets some rooms decided to start
headlining people who weren't headliners and that had 50 minutes of time
killing material. Instead of hiring comedians who can kick ass but demanded
more money.

The audiences noticed the drop in quality and recognizability of the
headliners and quit coming to these clubs. So, some ever smart clubowners
decided to "Paper" the rooms which is letting people in for free and living
off the drinks alone. This is called a saloon. Once they got rid of the
cover charges they CERTAINLY couldn't afford the better comedians. Hence
they dried up and died.

Q. What about comedy writers?

A. There is currently no Usenet group specifically for comedy writing.
Comedy writers are encouraged to use alt.comedy.standup for that purpose.
Since there is a huge overlap in the two venues (stand-ups usually write
their own material) comedy writing is often discussed in the newsgroup.

Q. This news group isn't funny.

A. Then shut your pie hole and post something funny.

You're either new to the group or not a comic. People who peruse the group
the first time often have no idea what's going on. Comedians are notorious
for remembering and calling back posts from days, months, or even years ago
and using them as ammunition to rip others. Many of the posts that seem
nonsensical at first usually turn out to be the funny ones if you've been
paying attention. The posts whose contents are most readily apparent to a
newcomer are the functional/informational posts, and those are generally
dull, especially to outsiders who really don't care what an opener in
Sheboygan makes.

In order to fully appreciate this group, it's helpful to know the
characters. Many of the regulars have been posting here for 2 years or
more.  Comedians are notorious for their amazing ability to recall any
event, no matter how trivial, especially if it can disparage someone or
bring forth humor. Lurk for a few weeks. If it's still not funny to you, go
to rec.humor and talk to those morons.

Q. Just what is a stand-up comedian, Bob?

A. "Comedian: a breed of human being who, without benefit of a steady job,
adequete plane fare or a social life, traverses the globe attempting to
impart upon the masses his/her warped, intricate and often beguiled point
of view while living from brown paper bags, overnight cases and on stale
donuts and coffee."

Q. Why are you a stand-up, Billy?

A. I know when I was a kid, I mean little kid, if I could make the grownups
laugh, I felt like I was closer to them, or they were closer to me. I used
humour in school to avoid getting beaten up, to make friends, and to escape
the realities of homework (a humourous essay was quicker to write than a
real one, and I could get the teacher to laugh, I sometimes actually got a
good mark ).

Q. What differentiates comedians from other people?

A. Everyone experiences pain, of course. But a comedian has the ability to
use their anger and intelligence to refocus and reconstruct their pain into
entertainment. It's so obvious that it almost goes without saying, but
comedians are generally more intelligent and sensitive than the average
person. It's our undeniably superior (almost god-like) intelligence that
made life difficult for us when we were children. We could see through the
hypocracy and illogic of our parents and teachers, but because of our age
and size we couldn't do anything about it. The more we pointed out the
foolishness of our "superiors," the more they kept us down. But just as
pressure and heat transform coal into diamonds, it's that frustration,
social pressure and the heat of anger that transforms us into comedians.

Q. How many Open Mikes do I have to do to become a star, actual3?

A. It frequently amazes me how many people want - even expect - some kind
of instant stardom. As someone who frequents open mics, I think it's
important that people understand that the value you get out of them is not
some diamond lane to superstardom but the opportunity to try different
things in front of an audience and develop a comfort level that allows you
to get better.

Along the way, of course, you'll have the fun of getting out of the house,
away from the television and performing for people the way they used to do
it in the old days. It's a lot like entertaining people in your living
room, because the audience is mostly comprised of other performers. If you
go into an open mic situation expecting some kind of immediate result,
you're only going to be frustrated and get angry. And what's the point of
that? You don't get good feedback that way; nor do you give yourself a
chance to fail.

Q. What else can you tell me about these Open Mikes, actual3?

A. I consider open mics to be a hobby like fencing or building model
railroads or refinishing furniture. You put in time and effort, you achieve
a certain level of expertise, but the odds that you'll get back any of the
time or money you invest are very small. It becomes a matter of deciding
what you're going to do with your life.

So what am I going to do with the time I have left here on Earth? I can
entertain people who are as bored as I am. For a few hours, I can forget my
stupid money problems and help others forget, too. Open mics are great for
that. If it turns out that I have a chance to make a little money from it,
get a little recognition, and maybe hit it big, all the better. But when
I'm up on stage at an open mic I try to get as much emotional and
intellectual value out of those few moments as I can. If I didn't, I'd be
in real trouble. Because that might be all I ultimately get out of it.

Q. I'm pretty damn funny. How do I go about getting a gig, Tim?

A. Oh, sure, you may be pretty damn funny. But you'll need a hell of a lot
more than that to get one of your so-called "gigs." Bitterness, for one
thing. If you haven't failed miserably at nearly every legitimate job
you've ever tried to hold, then you might not have the necessary level of
choking bile to perform stand-up. You see, the best stand-ups are those who
are able to take their own sickening, pathetic obsessions and shortcomings,
and splatter them all over an audience like an Alien Autopsy. Only then
will you even begin to appreciate the masochistic delight you'll experience
offering your brilliant analogies and sparkling wit to a room full of
smoking drunks trying desperately to get laid by the other fattest person
in the room.

Q. I'm really freaking funny, Liam.

A. Every time someone tells you how funny they are, you know right away
that they're not, and the more they insist on the fact that they're funny,
the more you know they're an untalented douchebag.

Q. What should my act be about, Mark?

A. There are jokes and subjects that the individual comedian wants to tell
and explore and there are jokes and subjects the audience wants to explore.
There is a large intersection and it is the comedian's job to find that
intersection.

Q. Are friends and family supportive of my decision to do comedy, Steve?

A. Friends and family will think you're nuts if you continue to pursue
stand-up for years, to the detriment of personal relationships, good health
and good credit reports, and they'll eventually tell you so to your face.
Enjoy these early days, when those who love you will patronize you, and
encourage you to follow your dream to your face, secretly believing that
one day you'll take that Asst. Manager gig at Blockbuster Video.

Q. There are no Open Mikes in my area. How do I get stage time?

A. Well you could move, but consider starting your own Open Mike. Go to a
local bar, or club, or even shopping mall and pitch it to them. Tell them
you are going to run a comedy night once a week or so. If you don't have,
or can't afford equipment, a bar, or anyplace bands play are usually a good
venues. The point is, make things happen for yourself. If you depend upon
others for your success, you'll often end up getting screwed politically,
financially, or creatively, but seldom physically.

Q. How do I set up an Open Mike, Al?

A. Find a bar or coffeeshop that has a small performance area that's
separate from the main bar area.
Make sure you can perform without worrying about the juke box, the
television set or waiters carrying food.
Ask the owner for permission to have small open mikes there during a time
when it's slow anyway.
Send notices to your local newspapers and drama classes to advertise that
you exist.
Open mikes that mix music, poetry, etc. with comedy tend to be more fun for
the audience members than those that just feature bad, open-mike-level
comedy.

Suggetions:
Make sure that the bar owner understands that most of the performers will
be really, really bad.
Try not to locate the acts any place where the performers will frighten
away the paying customers.
Charge a fee and give the some money to the bar owner.
Avoid setting up your open mike at a family restaurant or anywhere else
where many kids are present.
If you do end up somewhere need food or kids, make it clear to the
performers what the limits are.

Yes, censorship is bad, but there is nothing worse than a bad comic doing
stupid enema jokes while people are eating. Especially when it's the same
bad enema jokes you've hard 50 times before.

Q. Is gender a problem in stand-up, Cathe?

A. The problems I have found most in clubs is that there is a quota of how
many women will get booked because "They're just not popular." The worst
problem is the ability to break that wall of "woman = same old shtick" that
glazes over owners and managers eyes. No man has ever been passed over for
a gig because there was "already another man on the bill".

Q. What's a hack?

A. Stolen material. There's nothing lower or more reprehensible than
someone who steals your material - - especially if they do it better than
you. A hack also refers to material done to death, e.g. Cops in Donut
shops, 7-11 jokes, Clinton-Lewinski jokes, Viagra jokes, differences
between cats and dogs, airline food, etc. etc.

There is an entire FAQ, called the "Hack FAQ"
(http://rampages.onramp.net/~stevebo/hack.html) which gets posted
periodically to alt.comedy.standup and was originally written by Steven
Rosenthal.

